Katalon studio notes:
---------------------
---------------------

Link where I learned:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xBjNhauVDio&list=PLhW3qG5bs-L_D4ZePNNjvmIULuu6mBHbu&index=1



Tutorial 1: Introduction
-----------
Katalon studio os the free tool for automation of web, API and mobile
It is easy to learn. Any manual tester can easily learn katalon studio
We can use it for web automation, mobile (android & ios) automation and for API
It can be integrated with jira, git or jenkins
We can do cross browser testing
We can record and replay

Tutorial 2: Installation & setup
----------
Type katalon studio in google
Go to offical website of katalon studio
Signup and download katalon studio
Install katalon studio

Tutorial 3: GUI options and its uses
----------
Help -> Guick guide     //This will show the use of each option in UI

Main tool:
new //This is to add new test or new project or new object repor etc
Spy web or Spy mobile //This is capture object by doing some action in application
Record //This is used to record the test by doing manually and recording
Run //Used to run the test
Debug  //Used to debug the test
Stop  //Used to stop the test
Build CMD //Used to create command line tool. So that we dont want to open the UI to run. we can run using command
Git //Used to integrated Git repo

Test Explorer:  //This option is available above the test cases
Here it will test cases, object repo, test suite, data files etc
we can filder with name and component

Keyword browser:
This will show all available keywords

Editor:
For test, it will show manual, code, variable and integration.  //manual is to manually add a step in test, code is code the action or step, variable will show all global variable
For object repository, it will give the option to add object or identifier
For test suite, it will the option to add test case in test suite. We can enable or disable any test here
For data files, it will give the option to add test data via excel, csv, text or db etc
For keyword, this will give option to edit the keyword behaviour


views:
This will give option to view global variables, console output, test cases status pass/fail etc


When clicking any keyword, it will show keyword or debug in top right. Debug is used to debug for the test

Preferences:
For windows: Windows -> preferences
For mac: Click on katalon studio in top left corner -> preferences
This is used to change any default settings of katalon studio

To move to default:
Windows -> default settings


Clicking ? (question mark) will take to documentation page in browser

Ctrl + Alt + C //This will give quick link to component


Help -> Report.  //This is to report any issue and log ticket to katalon if something not working in katalon studio

To skip the step in test we can right click on the step and then click on disable
To skip the test in suite, we can disable checkbox in run 


Tutorial 4: First Test
-------------
3 way we can write the test

1. Record and play //We can click record option and give url and open browser and record all the action and then we replay the same
2. Manual mode //Here we will manually add keyword of each action and do
3. Scripting //Here we can use java or groovy code to create test scripts


Tutorial 5: Record and reply
-----------
To record:
1. Click record button
2. Give url and select browser
3. Click record button
It will launch the browser
4. Do the action which we wanted to record in the link
Katalon studio will capture all the action
5. Then click stop button

6. Option- If we wanted to add validation, we can give that in item
(It will save the objects which has been captured during recording. Give the path where we wanted to save)
7. To reply or to run, We can click run button and select the browser where we wanted to run


Tutorial 6: Create test using manual mode
----------
Using spy web we can able to capture the object
Click spy web, give url and browser and select the object in browser which we need to capture.
Then click the short cut or capture object to capture the object
This will capture the locator
Now we can save the object in folder which we wanted to save in object repo


Now click new button and click test case,
Select the folder where we wanted to add the test
Give the test name and give ok
Click on add button to add item keyword
We can give object and value if needed
To verify we can add verification item like verify text present
Once done, save it
Then click on run button to run on chrome
To run in other browser, click arrow button in run button and then select the browser.
It will run the test on given browser.

We can handle whether we have to stop or continue if any failure in between.
Go to -> project -> settings -> Test case -> Select any (stop on failure / continue on failure / optional) //stop means it will stop if some step got failed, continue mean it will continue even if it fails. but the result will be failed, optional means it wont show as failure even if some test fails if it can move till the end of test )

To handle the same in step level:
Select the step, right click on the step -> select any (stop on failure / continue on failure / optional) //stop means it will stop if some step got failed, continue mean it will continue even if it fails. but the result will be failed, optional means it wont show as failure even if some test fails if it can move till the end of the test )

//We can drag and drop any keyword or object to the test.


Tutorial 7: Creating script in script mode
-------------------------
we can use java or groovy to write the script

We can capture the object using spy mode and save the required object in object repository
To create test, click on add button and give test case name and give ok
Then we can see the test case, we can click on script option, so that it will switch to script mode
We can see the default package/class which has been already imported.

Now we can give WebUI.methoname() or mobile.methodname()
It will show the suggession of available methods.

While writing, we can drag and drop the object, so that it will added in script
To no run any step, we can give like not_run before the line
not_run: WebUI.methodname()

Whatever we write in script mode, it will show the same step in manual mode
Whatever we write in manual mode, it will show the same step in script mode
So it is easy to find script and manual steps


Tutorial 8: How to create and run Test Suite
---------------
Test suite is used to categorize or group the set of test cases

To create Test suite
Add -> Test suite -> Give test suite name

To add test cases in test suite
Select the test suite -> add -> select test cases which we wanted to add in selected test suite

To run test suite
Select the test suite -> Click run button (Select browser or device)

To view log:
We can view the result in Log viewer

To view report:
Report->Select the test suite. It will show the result of each test
Select the test cases. It will show the result of each step
Select step. It will show the log of each step
We can see the summary of report by clicking summary
We have filter to filter pass / fail / error etc
We can able to see logs of each test cases and each steps in test case

In Test suite -> Execution information, we can handle below
Timeout
Retry
Add mail recipients
View last run report
//Select Test suite -> Execution information, we can give timeout or retry or add mail recipients or view last run report



Tutorial 9: Test suite collection - Parallel run
----------------------------------
Test suite collection will have set of test suites

To create test suite collection
Add -> Test suite collection -> Give name of test suite collection
Then add test suite in test suite collection.
Then we can give different browser for each test suite.
We can enable or disable the check on run

In test suite collection -> Execution information
We can select parallel to run parallel
We can select sequence to run sequence


To run:
We can select test suite collection and click run
It will run all test suite in the the collection in given different browsers

Report:
In report we can see the report for test suite collection
It will show all required details of pass, fail etc



Tutorial 10: Report
-------------------
Report will be generated after 
Running the test case
Running the test suite
Running the test suite collection

In Logviewer, we will get all details of pass, fail, warning, error etc
We can filter with same if needed

We can double click the step to show the details of failure

In top right, it will show tree view. This will show the logs in tree
It will show the line number of test case, we can click and move that line

In top right, it will show scroll lock.
This will show recent log on bottom and old log on top
We can click scroll lock to freeze the log


Test suite report
Report -> Test suite -> time
It will show the test suite report
We can click on show test case details to show test cases report

We can click on any test, it will show the report
We can click any step, it will give more detail
If any screenshot is there, it will show the screenshot as well. It will show as attachment button
Information will give details of test execution information of the test
Integration will give details of cicd or any integration details

In test suite -> time
We can right click and click open containing folder
This will open the report folder
Here we can find the report in csv
Here we can find property and log file
Here we can see the report.html will have all details of the complete report
It will show all details, and screeshot if we there


Test suite collection report
It will show available test suite, environment where it runs, it will show number of test cases pass in each suite
Show details will show suite level report
Right click on report of test suite collection -> open container folder, this will also show all report details in folder


If need we can rename the testreport.
Right click on the timestamp and rename
We can see the captured screenshot in step folder. it shows attach button


If we wanted to generate the report automatically after running, then
Project -> settings -> execution 
Here we can check to open the report automatically after execution


All test report will be saved




Tutorial 11: How to Email result:
--------------------

Project -> Settings -> Email

Give host as smtp.gmail.com
port as 465
username as sender email Eg: robin.rymonse@qapitol.com
password of sender email Eg: 123456
Protocol as TLS

Click add button to add recipient/reciever email address. Who ever wanted to recive the emai report, add here


Click on send test email to check whether email report is working or not

If we face any issue while sending test email, go to sender google account.
Click signing to google under Signin & Security,
At the end of page, we can find Allow less secure apps.
Enable this and try sending test mail again.

Once done give apply and Ok.

//If we wanted to send csv and html report along with email result then check send attachment. If not need, then we dont wanted to check


Email notification will be send once the test suite is completed.

Click the test suite for which we need to send the email result.
Click on execution informaion, there we can find add button mail recipients, There we can add receiver email ids.

Now the Email notification will be send once the test suite is completed.






Other notes:
-----------
------------
//If need we can create folder in test case and we can add the test cases into the folder.
Default timeout is available in Project -> settings -> execution ->



























